PART I

Good sense is, of all things among men, the most equally distributed; for every one thinks himself
so abundantly provided with it, that those even who are the most difficult to satisfy in everything
else, do not usually desire a larger measure of this quality than they already possess. And in this
it is not likely that all are mistaken the conviction is rather to be held as testifying that the
power of judging aright and of distinguishing truth from error, which is properly what is called
good sense or reason, is by nature equal in all men; and that the diversity of our opinions,
consequently, does not arise from some being endowed with a larger share of reason than others, but
solely from this, that we conduct our thoughts along different ways, and do not fix our attention on
the same objects. For to be possessed of a vigorous mind is not enough; the prime requisite is
rightly to apply it. The greatest minds, as they are capable of the highest excellences, are open
likewise to the greatest aberrations; and those who travel very slowly may yet make far greater
progress, provided they keep always to the straight road, than those who, while they run, forsake
it.

For myself, I have never fancied my mind to be in any respect more perfect than those of the
generality; on the contrary, I have often wished that I were equal to some others in promptitude of
thought, or in clearness and distinctness of imagination, or in fullness and readiness of memory.
And besides these, I know of no other qualities that contribute to the perfection of the mind; for
as to the reason or sense, inasmuch as it is that alone which constitutes us men, and distinguishes
us from the brutes, I am disposed to believe that it is to be found complete in each individual; and
on this point to adopt the common opinion of philosophers, who say that the difference of greater
and less holds only among the accidents, and not among the forms or natures of individuals of the
same species.

I will not hesitate, however, to avow my belief that it has been my singular good fortune to have
very early in life fallen in with certain tracks which have conducted me to considerations and
maxims, of which I have formed a method that gives me the means, as I think, of gradually augmenting
my knowledge, and of raising it by little and little to the highest point which the mediocrity of my
talents and the brief duration of my life will permit me to reach. For I have already reaped from it
such fruits that, although I have been accustomed to think lowly enough of myself, and although when
I look with the eye of a philosopher at the varied courses and pursuits of mankind at large, I find
scarcely one which does not appear in vain and useless, I nevertheless derive the highest
satisfaction from the progress I conceive myself to have already made in the search after truth, and
cannot help entertaining such expectations of the future as to believe that if, among the
occupations of men as men, there is any one really excellent and important, it is that which I have
chosen.

After all, it is possible I may be mistaken; and it is but a little copper and glass, perhaps, that
I take for gold and diamonds. I know how very liable we are to delusion in what relates to
ourselves, and also how much the judgments of our friends are to be suspected when given in our
favor. But I shall endeavor in this discourse to describe the paths I have followed, and to
delineate my life as in a picture, in order that each one may also be able to judge of them for
himself, and that in the general opinion entertained of them, as gathered from current report,
I myself may have a new help towards instruction to be added to those I have been in the habit of
employing.

My present design, then, is not to teach the method which each ought to follow for the right conduct
of his reason, but solely to describe the way in which I have endeavored to conduct my own. They who
set themselves to give precepts must of course regard themselves as possessed of greater skill than
those to whom they prescribe; and if they err in the slightest particular, they subject themselves
to censure. But as this tract is put forth merely as a history, or, if you will, as a tale, in
which, amid some examples worthy of imitation, there will be found, perhaps, as many more which it
were advisable not to follow, I hope it will prove useful to some without being hurtful to any, and
that my openness will find some favor with all.

From my childhood, I have been familiar with letters; and as I was given to believe that by their
help a clear and certain knowledge of all that is useful in life might be acquired, I was ardently
desirous of instruction. But as soon as I had finished the entire course of study, at the close of
which it is customary to be admitted into the order of the learned, I completely changed my opinion.
For I found myself involved in so many doubts and errors, that I was convinced I had advanced no
farther in all my attempts at learning, than the discovery at every turn of my own ignorance. And
yet I was studying in one of the most celebrated schools in Europe, in which I thought there must be
learned men, if such were anywhere to be found. I had been taught all that others learned there; and
not contented with the sciences actually taught us, I had, in addition, read all the books that had
fallen into my hands, treating of such branches as are esteemed the most curious and rare. I knew
the judgment which others had formed of me; and I did not find that I was considered inferior to my
fellows, although there were among them some who were already marked out to fill the places of our
instructors. And, in fine, our age appeared to me as flourishing, and as fertile in powerful minds
as any preceding one. I was thus led to take the liberty of judging of all other men by myself, and
of concluding that there was no science in existence that was of such a nature as I had previously
been given to believe.
